December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 1 of 23  
 Transcript of Chair Powell ’s Press Conference 
December 14 , 2022 
 
CHAIR POWELL .  Good afternoon .  Before I go into the details of today ’s meeting, I 
would like to underscore for the American people that we understand the hardship that high 
inflation is causing and that we are strongly committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal .  Over the course of the year, we have tak en forceful actions to tighten the stance 
of monetary policy.  We have covered a lot of ground, and the full effects of our rapid tightening so far are yet to be felt.  Even so, we have more work to do.  Price stability is the responsibility 
of the Federal  Reserve and serves as the bedrock of our economy .  Without price stability, the 
economy doesn’ t work for anyone .  In particular, without price stability, we will not achieve a 
sustained period of strong labor market conditions that benefit all.  
Today, the  FOMC  raised our policy interest rate by ½ percentage point .  We continue to 
anticipate that ongoing increases will be appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time .  In addition, we are 
continuing the process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet .  Restoring price 
stability will likely require maintaining a restrictive policy stance for some time .  I will have 
more to say about today ’s monetary policy actions after briefly reviewing economic 
developments.  
The U.S . economy has slowed significantly from last year ’s rapid pace.  Although real 
GDP  rose at a pace of 2.9 percent last quarter, it is roughly unchanged through the first three 
quarters of this y ear.  Recent indicators point to modest growth of spending and production this 
quarter .  Growth in consumer spending has slowed from last year ’s rapid pace, in part reflecting 
lower real disposable income and tighter financial conditions .  Activity in the housing sector has 
weakened significantly, largely reflecting higher mortgage rates .  Higher  interest rates and December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 2 of 23  
 slower output growth also appear to be weighing on business fixed investment .  As shown in our 
Summary of Economic Projections, the median p rojection for real GDP growth stands at just 
0.5 percent this year and next, well below the median estimate of the longer -run normal 
growth rate.  
Despite the slowdown in growth, the labor market remains extremely tight, with the 
unemployment rate near a 50- year low, job vacancies still very high, and wage growth elevated.  
Job gains have been robust, with employment rising by an average of 272,000 jobs per month 
over the last three months .  Although job vacancies have moved below their highs and the pace 
of job gains has slowed from earlier in the year, the labor market continues to be out of balance, 
with demand substantially exceeding the supply of available workers .  The labor force 
participation rate is little changed since the beginning of the year .  FO MC participants expect 
supply and demand conditions in the labor market to come into better balance over time, easing 
upward pressures on wages and prices .  The median projection in the SEP for the unemployment 
rate rises to 4.6 percent at the end of next year.  
Inflation remains well above our longer- run goal of 2 percent .  Over the 12 months 
ending in October, total PCE prices rose 6 percent; excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 5 percent .  In November, the 12- month change in the CPI was 
7.1 percent, and the change in the core CPI was 6 percent .  The inflation data received so far for 
October and November show a welcome reduction in the monthly pace of price increases .  But it 
will take substantially more evidence to give confidence that inflation is on a sustained downward path.  Price pressures remain evident across a broad range of goods and services.  Russia’ s war against Ukraine has boosted prices for energy and food and has contributed to 
upward pressure on inflation.  The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation is December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 3 of 23  
 5.6 percent this year and falls to 3.1 percent next year, 2.5 percent in 2024, and 2.1 percent in 
2025; participants continue to see risks to inflation as weighted to the upside. 
Despite elevated inflation, longer -term inflation expectations appear to remain well 
anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households, businesses, and forecasters as well as measures from financial markets.  But that is not grounds for complacency; the lo nger the 
current bout of high inflation continues, the greater the chance that expectations of higher inflation will become entrenched.  
The Fed ’s monetary policy actions are guided by our mandate to promote maximum 
employment and stable prices for the Amer ican people .  My colleagues and I are acutely aware 
that high inflation imposes significant hardship as it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials like food, housing, and transportation.  We are highl y attentive to the risks that high inflation poses to both sides of our mandate, and we are 
strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent objective.  
At today’ s meeting , the Committee raised the target range for the federal funds rate by 
½ perc entage point, bringing the target range to 4 ¼ to 4½ percent .  And we are continuing the 
process of significantly reducing the size of our balance sheet.  
With today’ s action, we have raised interest rates by 4 ¼ percentage points this year .  We 
continue to a nticipate that ongoing increases in the target range for the federal funds rate will be 
appropriate in order to attain a stance of monetary policy that is sufficiently restrictive to return inflation to 2 percent over time .  Over the course of the year, fi nancial conditions have tightened 
significantly in response to our policy actions .  Financial conditions fluctuate in the short term in 
response to many factors, but it is important that , over time , they reflect the policy restraint that 
we are putting in place to return inflation to 2 percent .  We are seeing the effects on demand in December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 4 of 23  
 the most interest -sensitive sectors of the economy, such as housing .  It will take time, however, 
for the full effects of monetary restraint to be realized, especially on inflation .  In light of the 
cumulative tightening of monetary policy and the lags with which monetary policy affects 
economic activity and inflation, the Committee decided to raise interest rates by 50 basis points today, a step -down from the  75 basis point pace seen over the previous four meetings .  Of 
course, 50 basis points is still a historically large increase, and we still have some ways to go.  
As shown in the SEP, the median projection for the appropriate level of the federal funds 
rate is 5.1 percent at the end of next year, ½ percentage point higher than projected in September .  
The median projection is 4.1 percent at the end of 2024 and 3.1 percent at the end of 2025, still above the median estimate of its longer -run value .  Of course , these projections do not represent 
a Committee decision or plan, and no one knows with any certainty where the economy will be a year or more from now .  Our decisions will depend on the totality of incoming data and their 
implications for the outlook for  economic activity and inflation.  And we will continue to make 
our decisions meeting by meeting and communicate our thinking as clearly as possible. 
We are taking forceful steps to moderate demand so that it comes into better alignment 
with supply.  Our o verarching focus is using our tools to bring inflation back down to our 
2 percent goal and to keep longer -term inflation expectations well anchored .  Reducing inflation 
is likely to require a sustained period of below -trend growth and some softening of labor market 
conditions .  Restoring price stability is essential to set the stage for achieving maximum 
employment and stable prices over the longer run .  The historical record cautions strongly 
against prematurely loosening policy.  We will stay the course u ntil the job is done.  
To conclude :  We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and 
businesses across the country .  Everything we do is in service to our public mission.  We at the December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 5 of 23  
 Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum -emplo yment and price -stability goals .  
Thank you.  I will look forward to your questions.  
MICHELLE SMITH .  Steve . 
STEVE LIESMAN .  Steve Liesman, CNBC .  Thanks for taking my question, 
Mr. Chairman .  You just talked about the importance of market conditions reflecting the policy 
restraint you put in place .  Since the November meeting, the 10- year has declined by 60 basis 
points, mortgage rates have come down, high- yield credit spreads have come in, the economy ’s 
accelerated, and the stock market ’s up 6 percent .  Is this loosening of financial conditions a 
problem for the Fed in its effort, and its fight , against inflation?   And, if so, do you need to do 
something about that?   And how would you do something about that?   Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL .  So, as I mentioned, it is important that overall financial conditions 
continue to reflect the policy restraint that we ’re putting in place to bring inflation down to 
2 percent .  We thi nk that financial conditions have tightened significantly in the past year .  But 
our policy actions work through financial conditions .  And those, in turn, affect economic 
activity, the labor market, and inflation .  So what we control is our policy moves i n the 
communications that we make .  Financial conditions both anticipate , and react to , our actions . 
I would add that our focus is not on short -term moves , but on persistent moves .  And 
many, many things, of course, move financial conditions over time .  I would say it ’s our 
judgment today that we ’re not at a sufficiently restrictive policy stance yet, which is why we say 
that we would expect that ongoing hikes would be appropriate .  And I would point you to the 
SEP again for our current assessment of what t hat peak level will be.  As you will have seen, 
19 people filled out the SEP this time, and 17 of those 19 wrote down a peak rate of 5 percent or 
more —in the 5s .  So that ’s our best assessment today for what we think the peak rate will be.  December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 6 of 23  
 You will also know that, at each subsequent SEP during the course of this year, we ’ve 
actually increased our estimate of what that peak rate will be .  And today we ’re—the SEP th at 
was published shows again that , overwhelmingly , FOMC participants believe that inflation ris ks 
are to the upside .  So I can ’t tell you confidently that we won’ t move up our estimate of the peak 
rate again at the next SEP .  I don’ t know what we ’ll do.  It will depend on future data .  What 
we’re writing down today is our best estimate of what we think that peak rate will be , based on 
what we know .  Obviously, if data —if the inflation data come in worse, that could move up .  
And it could move down if inflation data are softer.  
MICHELLE SMITH .  Jeanna.  
JEANNA SMIALEK.  Jeanna Smialek, New York Tim es.  Thanks for taking our 
questions .  The SEP, like you mentioned, suggests that the F ed will be making another 
¾ percentage points worth of rate increases in 2023 .  I wonder if you would foresee that being in 
25 basis point increments, 50 basis point inc rements —sort of how you see the speed playing out 
going forward.  And then I wonder what you’ re looking at as you determine when to stop. 
CHAIR POWELL .  So, as I ’ve been saying, as we’ ve gone through the course of this 
year, as we lifted off and got into t he course of the year and we saw the— how strong inflation 
was and how persistent, it was very important to move quickly.  In fact, the speed —the pace with 
which we ’re moving was the most important thing .  I think now that we ’re coming to the end of 
this ye ar, we ’ve raised 425 basis points this year , and we ’re into restrictive territory . 
It’s now not so important how fast we go.  It’ s far more important to think , what is the 
ultimate level?  And then it’ s—at a certain point, the question will become , how long do we 
remain restrictive ?  That will become the most important question .  But I would say the most 
important question now is no longer the speed.  So —and that applies to February as well .  So I December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 7 of 23  
 think we ’ll make the February decision based on the incoming data and where we see financial 
conditions, where we see the economy.  And that ’ll be the key thing, but —I mean, for that 
decision.  
But, ultimately, that question about how high to raise rates is going to be one that we 
make looking at our progres s on inflation, looking at where financial conditions are , and making 
an assessment of whether policy is restrictive enough .  [As] I ’ve told you today, we have an 
assessment that we’ re not at a restrictive enough stance, even with today ’s move .  And we ’ve 
laid out our own—our individual assessments of what we would need to do to get there .  At a 
certain point, though, we ’ll get to that point.  And then the question will be , how long do we 
stay there ? 
And there, the strong view on the Committee is that we ’ll need to stay there, you know, 
until we ’re really confident that inflation is coming down in a sustained way.  And we think that 
that will be some time .  Now, why do I say that?   If you look at —you can break inflation down 
into three , sort of , buckets .  The first is goods inflation, and we see now, as we ’ve been 
expecting, really , for a year and a half , that supply conditions would get better .  And, ultimately, 
supply chains get fixed, and demand settles down a little bit and maybe goes back to services a 
little bit.  And we start to see goods inflation coming down.  We’ re now starting to see that in 
this report and the last one . 
Then you go to housing services .  We know the story there is that housing services 
inflation has been very, very high and will continue to go up, actually.  A s rents expire and have 
to be renewed, they’ re going to be renewed into a market where rates are higher than they were 
when the original leases were signed .  But we see that the new leases that are—that the rate for 
new leases is coming down .  So, once we work our way through that backlog, that inflation will December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 8 of 23  
 come down sometime next year .  The third piece, which is something like 55 percent of the 
index, PCE core inflation index, is non- housing- related core services.  And that ’s really a 
function of the labor market, largely.  The biggest cost , by far , in that sector is labor.  And we do 
see a very, very strong labor market, one where we haven’ t seen much softening, where job 
growth is very high, where wages are very high.  Vacancies are quite elevated , and, really, 
there ’s an imbalance in the labor market between supply and demand.  So that part of it, which is 
the biggest part, is likely to take a substantial period to get down. 
The other —you know, the goods inflation has turned pretty quickly now after not turning 
at all for a year and a half .  Now it seems to be turning .  But there ’s an expectation, really, that 
the services inflation will not move down so quickly, so that we ’ll have to stay at it, so that w e 
may have to raise rates higher to get to where we want to go .  And that ’s really why we are 
writing down those high rates and why we ’re expecting that they ’ll have to remain high for 
a time . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Howard . 
HOWARD SCHNEIDER.  Howard Schneider with Reuters .  Thanks for taking the 
question.  You describe GDP growth in the SEPs as moderate or modest, I believe .  Yet it ’s 
really approaching stall speed .  Half a percentage point is not much .  You described labor market 
unemployment rate as represent ing some softening.  But it’ s nearly a full percentage point rise, 
and that ’s well in excess of what has historically been associated with recession .  Why wouldn’ t 
this be considered a recessionary projection by the F ed? 
CHAIR POWELL .  Well, I ’ll tell you  what the projection is .  I don’ t think it would 
qualify as a recession, though, because you’ ve got positive growth.  The expectations in the SEP 
are basically as you said, which is, we ’ve got growth at a modest level, which is to say that December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 9 of 23  
 ½ percentage poi nt, that ’s positive growth.  It’ s slow growth.  It’ s well below trend .  It’s not 
going to feel like a boom .  It’s going to feel like very slow growth, right ? 
In that condition, labor market conditions are softening a bit .  Unemployment does go up 
a bit.  I would say that many analysts believe that the natural rate of unemployment is actually 
elevated at this moment .  So it ’s not clear that those forecasts of  inflation are really much above 
the natural rate of unemployment.  We can never identify its location with great precision .  But 
that 4.7 percent is still a strong labor market.  
If you look —you know, you’ ve got —the reports we get from the field are that companies 
are very reluctant to lay people off, other than the tech companies, which is, you know, a story 
unto itself .  Generally , companies want to hold onto the workers they have because it ’s been 
very, very hard to hire .  So you’ ve got all these vacancies out there— far in excess of the number 
of employed people .  That doesn ’t sound like a —you know, a labor market where a lot of people 
will need to be put out of work.  So that we —you know, there are channels through which the 
labor market can come back into balance with relatively modest increases in unemployment, we believe.  None of that is guarant eed, but that is what their forecast reflects . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Nick . 
NICK TIMIRAOS .  Thanks .  Nick Timiraos, Wall Street Journal .  Chair Powell, I want 
to follow up on Jeanna ’s question.  The decision to step down the pace of rate increase —rate 
rises appears to have been socialized at your last meeting, largely before the past two CPI reports 
showed inflation decelerating in line with the C ommittee ’s forecasts this year .  You just now 
talked about making decisions meeting by meeting and being mindful of the lags of policy .  Does 
that mean, all things equal, you would feel more comfortable probing where the terminal rate is by moving in 25 basis point increments, including beginning at your next meeting?  December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 10 of 23  
 CHAIR POWELL .  So I haven’ t made a judgment on wha t size rate hike to make at the 
last meeting .  But, you know, what you said is broadly right, which is , having moved so quickly 
and having now so much restraint that ’s still in the pipeline, we think that the appropriate thing 
to do now is to move to a slower pace .  And, you know, that will allow us to feel our way and—
you know, and get to that level, we think, and better balance the risks that we face .  So that ’s the 
idea.  It makes a lot of sense, it seems to me—particularly if you consider how far we ’ve come .  
But, again, I can’ t tell you today what the actual size of that will be .  It will depend on a variety 
of factors, including the incoming data in particular, the state of the economy, the state of 
financial conditions .   
NICK TIMIRAOS .  With the CPI report, if it did come out last week, do you think it 
would have changed some of those forecasts in today’ s estimate?  
CHAIR POWELL .  No .  Absolutely not .  No .  As a —just a matter of practice, the SEP 
reflects any data that ’s—that comes out during the meeting.  And participants know that they 
have the —they know this —that they can make changes to their SEP during the meeting, you 
know, well in advance of the press conference so that we’ re not running around.  But that ’s not 
the case.  It ’s never the case that  the SEPs don ’t reflect an important piece of data that came in 
on the first day of the meeting . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Rachel . 
RACHEL SIEGEL .  Hi, Chair Powell.  Rachel Siegel from the Washington Post .  Thank 
you for taking our questions .  I’m wondering if we could talk about the projection for the 
unemployment rate .  Why has the F ed raised its unemployment projection?   Is it because the 
model suggests that a higher terminal rate would automatically cause a higher unemployment December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 11 of 23  
 rate?  Or are you seeing signs that the labor market isn ’t quite as strong as we think it is now?   
Thanks . 
CHAIR POWELL .  No .  It’s not about the strength of the labor market.  The labor market 
is clearly very strong.  It is more just that, you know, by now, we had expected—we ’ve 
continually expected to make faster progress on inflation than we have, ultimately.  And that ’s 
why the peak rate for this year goes up between this meeting and the September meeting.  You 
see that —you see the fact that we’ ve made less progress than  expected on inflation.  So that ’s 
why that goes up.  And that ’s why unemployment goes up, because we’ re having to tighten 
policy more .  And so it didn’ t go up by much in the meeting, I don’ t think .  But that ’s the idea , is 
slower progress on inflation, ti ghter policy, probably higher rates probably held for longer just to 
get to where you—the kind of restriction that you need to get inflation down to 2 percent . 
RACHEL SIEGEL .  Do you have a sense of, in order to get to that number, how much of 
that could be caused by layoffs versus vacancies, trimming, or changes to the labor force 
population rate?  
CHAIR POWELL .  It’s very hard to say.  You know, there —you can look at history, 
right ?  And history would, you know, would say that, in a situation like t his, the declines in 
unemployment would be more meaningful, I think, than what you see written down there .  But 
why do we think that is the case?  So , I’ll give you a few reasons .  First just is that there ’s this 
huge overhang of vacancies, meaning that va cancies can come down a fair amount .  And we ’re 
hearing from many companies that they don’ t want to lay people off —so that they’ ll keep people 
because it ’s been so hard . 
I mean, I think we ’ve—it feels like we have a structural labor shortage out there wher e 
there  are, you know, 4 million fewer people, a little more than 4 million who were in the December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 12 of 23  
 workforce available to work than there ’s demand for workforce .  So the fact that there’ s a strong 
labor market, you know, means that companies will hold on to worke rs.  And it means that it 
may take longer, but it also means that the costs in unemployment may be less .  Again, that 
we’re going to find out empirically .  But I think that ’s a reasonably possible outcome.  And you 
do hear, you know, many, many labor economists believe that it is .  So we ’ll see, though. 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Colby. 
COLBY SMITH.  Thank you.  Colby Smith with the Financial Times .  How should we 
interpret the higher core inflation forecast for 2023 in the SEP?   Does that not then suggest that 
the policy rate currently forecasted for next year should actually be higher than the 5.1 medi an 
estimate penciled in?  
CHAIR POWELL .  Well, I think that’ s why one of the reasons it went up was that core 
came in stronger thi s year .  Yeah .  What you see is our best estimate, as of today—really, as of 
today—for how high we need to raise rates to— how much we need to tighten policy to create 
enough, you know, restrictive policy to slow economic activity and slow —soften the labor 
market and bring inflation down through those channels .  That ’s all—that is the estimate —best 
estimate—we make today.  And, as I mentioned, we ’ll make another estimate for the next SEP .  
And we ’ll, you know, of course, between meetings, we do the same thing, but we don’ t 
publish it . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Victoria .   
VICTORIA GUIDA.  Hi.  Victoria Guid a with Politico .  I wanted to make sure I 
understand specifically what ’s going on in the SEP , because you all expect rates to go higher, but 
you’re also more pessim istic about what inflation is going to look like next year .  And I was just December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 13 of 23  
 wondering, you know, given that we have seen some cooling in inflation, you know, is it —is that 
primarily because of wage growth, that you expect wage growth to be sort of a headwi nd? 
CHAIR POWELL .  We’ re going into next year with higher inflation than we had 
thought, right ?  So we’re actually moving down to—the level that we ’re moving down to next 
year is still a very large drop in inflation from where inflation is running now, well more than 
1 percent change in inflation .  But remember that the jump [ing]- off point at the beginning of the 
year is higher .  So, you know, we —we ’re moving down still by a very large chunk.  I don ’t think 
it’s having —I don’ t think the policy is having any less effect .  It’s just starting from a higher 
level at the end of 2022.  So we ’re getting down.  I believe the median is 3 ½ percent .  That 
would be —that ’s a pretty significant drop in inflation . 
And, you know, where ’s it coming from?   It’s coming from the goods sector, clearly.  By 
the middle of next year, we should begin to see lower inflation from the housing services sector .  
And then, you know, the big question is, when we —how much will you see from the largest, the 
55 percent of the index, which is the non- housing services sector ?  And, you know, that ’s where 
you need to see —we believe you need to see a better balancing of supply and demand in t he 
labor market so that you have —it’s not that we don’ t want wage increases.  We want strong 
wage increases.  We just want them to be at a level that ’s consistent with 2 percent inflation .  
Right now that —if you put into— if you factor in productivity estimates, standard productivity 
estimates, wages are running, you know, well above what would be consistent with 2 percent inflation . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Neil . 
NEIL IRWIN .  Thanks .  Hi, Chair Powell.  Neil Irwin with Axios .  Some of your 
colleag ues have been pretty explicit that they can ’t imagine rate cuts happening in 2023.  That ’s December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 14 of 23  
 certainly not implied by the SEP .  But futures markets have priced in some easing in the back 
half of next year .  What ’s your view of the likelihood of any kind of r ate cuts next year?  What 
circumstances might make that plausible?  
CHAIR POWELL .  You know, our focus right now is really on moving our policy stance 
to one that is restrictive enough to ensure a return of inflation to our 2 percent goal over time .  
It’s not on rate cuts.  And we think that we ’ll have to maintain a restrictive stance of policy for 
some time .  Historical experience caution s strongly against prematurely loosening policy .  I 
guess I would say it this way:  I wouldn’ t see us considering rate cu ts until the Committee is 
confident that inflation is moving down to 2 percent in a sustained way.  So that ’s the test I 
would articulate .  And you’ re correct.  There are not rate cuts in the SEP for 2023. 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Steve .   
STEVE MATTHEWS.  Steve Matthews with Bloomberg .  Let me ask you about China .  
In the last few weeks, China has abandoned its COVID policy and been reopening pretty 
strongly.  I’m wondering if you see that as disinflationary because you’ re seeing supply chains 
improve or inflationary because it obviously brings a lot more demand globally, improves the  
global outlook for growth and for commodities prices .   
CHAIR POWELL .  So you’ re right .  Those two things will offset each other .  Weaker 
output in China will push down on commodity prices, but it could interfere with supply chains 
ultimately .  And that could push inflation up in the West .  It’s very hard to say, you know, how 
much—how those two will offset each other.  And it doesn ’t seem likely, actually, that the 
overall ne t effect would be material on us .  But, to your point, China faces a very challenging 
situation in reopening.  You know, we ’ve seen , waves of COVID all around the world can 
interfere with economic activity .  China, a very critical manufacturing —place for m anufacturing December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 15 of 23  
 and exporting.  Their supply chain is very important .  And China faces a reopening.  They ’ve—
you know, they’ ve backed away from their COVID r estriction policies .  There  could be very 
significant increases in COVID .  And we ’ll just have to see .  It’s a risky situation .  It—but, 
again, it doesn’ t seem like it ’s likely to have material overall effects on us . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Chris.  
CHRIS RUGABER.  Hi .  Chris Rugaber, Associated Press.  Thank you for taking my 
question.  I wondered if you could comment a bit more about yesterday’ s inflation report.  I 
mean, it showed inflation cooling in all three of the categories that you laid out at Brookings .  
Are you starting to see —are you confident that you’ re seeing real progress on getting inflatio n 
under control?  Are you still worried it could slip into some kind of unentrenched, you know, 
upward spiral?   Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL .  Right .  So the data that we’ ve received so far for October and 
November, we don’ t have the —some of the —we have some remaining data to get in November, 
but they clearly do show a welcome reduction in the monthly pace of price increases .  As I 
mentioned in my opening statement, it will take substantially more evidence to give confidence that inflation is on a sustained down ward path.  So the way we think about this is this:  This 
report is very much in line with what we ’ve been expecting and hoping for .  And what it does is , 
it provides greater confidence in our forecast of declining inflation . 
As I mentioned, we ’ve been expecting significant —forecasting significant declines in 
overall inflation and core inflation in the coming year .  And this is the kind of reading that it will 
take to support that .  So, really, this gives us greater confidence in our forecasts rather than , at 
this point , changing our forecast .  In terms of the pieces, we have been expecting goods inflation 
to come down as supply chain pressures eased .  That’s happening now .  Housing services —as I December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 16 of 23  
 mentioned, there ’s good news in the pipeline .  As long as hous ing—new housing leases show 
declining inflation, that will show up in the measure around the middle of next year .  So that 
should help.  And the big piece, again, is core services, ex  housing, which is very important .  
And we have a ways to go there .  You do see some beginning signs there . 
But, ultimately, that ’s the big —the more than half, as I mentioned, of PCE core index .  
And it ’s very fundamentally about the labor market and wages .  If you look at wages, look at the 
average hourly earnings number w e got with the last payrolls report, you don’ t really see much 
progress in terms of average hourly earnings coming down.  Now, there may be composition 
effects and other effects in that.  So we don’ t put too much weight on any one report .  These 
things can be volatile month to month.  But we will be looking for wages moving, you know, down to more normal levels where workers are doing well and, ultimately, their gains are not being eaten up by inflation. 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Michael McKee.   
MICHAEL MCKEE .  The re’s a—excuse me, Michael McKee from Bloomberg Radio 
and Television.  There ’s a little bit of a disconnect between the optimistic view you just 
expressed about the economy and the changes that you’ ve made in the SEP .  And I ’m wondering 
if you’ re reacting t o the fact that the markets have loosened financial conditions or if you feel the 
Fed may be a little bit behind on inflation, whether the recent disinflation we ’re seeing is 
transitory or not , and how this affects the idea of a soft landing if you’ re projecting just 
½ percent growth for this year.  
CHAIR POWELL .  So if I—I think I got your question.  So, you know, one thing is to 
say is, I think our polic y’s in—getting into a pretty good place now .  We’ re restrictive, and I 
think we ’re—you know, we ’re getting close to that level of sufficient— we think—sufficiently December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 17 of 23  
 restrictive .  We laid out today what our best estimates are to get there .  And, I mean, it boils 
down to, how long do we think this process is going to take?  And, of course, we ’re—we 
welcome these better inflation reports for the last two months .  They ’re very welcome .  But I 
think we ’re realistic about the broader project .  So that ’s all.  That’s the point I would make . 
It’s—you know, we see goods prices coming down.  We understand what will happen 
with housing services .  But the big story will really be the rest of it, and there ’s not much 
progress there .  And that ’s going to take some time .  I think my view and my colleagues ’ view is 
that this will take some time .  We ’ll have to hold policy at a restrictive level for a sustained 
period so that, you know, two good—you know, two good monthly reports are, you know, very 
welcome.  Of course, they’ re very welcome .  But we need to be honest with ourselves that 
there ’s, you know, inflation—12- month core inflation is 6 percent CPI .  That ’s three times our 
2 percent target .  Now, it ’s good to see progress .  But let ’s just understand we have a long ways 
to go to get back to price stability.  
MICHAEL MCKEE .  Well, do you think the soft landing is no longer achievable?  
CHAIR POWELL .  No, I wouldn’ t say that .  No .  I don’ t say that .  I mean, I would say 
this:  You know, to the extent we need to keep rates higher and keep them there for longer and inflation, you know, moves up higher and higher, I think that narrows the runway.  But lower 
inflation readings, if they persist, in time, could certainly make it more possible .  So I just —I 
don’t think anyone knows whether we ’re going to have a recession or not and, if we do, whether 
it’s going to be a deep one  or not .  It’s just , it’s not knowable .  And certainly, you know, lower 
inflation reports, were they to continue for a period of time, would increase the likelihood of a —
put it this way, of a return to price stability that involves significantly less of an  increase in 
unemployment than would be expected given the historical record.  December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 18 of 23  
 MICHELLE SMITH .  Brian . 
BRIAN CHEUNG.  Hi, Chairman Powell.  Brian Ch eung, NBC News .  You warned 
Americans of pain earlier this year as the F ed hikes rates .  But with the Fed now  expected to 
raise rates higher than you thought when you first said that, just wondering where we are in that 
pain.  How would you describe that to Americans if the projections on unemployment find themselves —that ’d be 1.6 million Americans out of jobs?  
CHAIR POWELL .  So the largest amount of pain —the worst pain would come from a 
failure to raise rates high enough and from us allowing inflation to become entrenched in the economy so that the ultimate cost of getting it out of the economy would be very high  in terms of 
employment, meaning very high unemployment for extended periods of time, the kind of thing that had to happen when inflation really got out of control and the F ed didn’ t respond 
aggressively enough or soon enough in a prior episode, you know, 50 years ago.  So that ’s 
really —the worst pain would be if we failed to act . 
What we’ re doing now is, you know, it ’s raising interest rates for people .  And so people 
are paying higher rates on mortgages and that kind of thing.  There will be some softening in 
labor market conditions .  And I wish there were a completely painless way to restore price 
stability .  There isn ’t.  And this is the best we can do .  I do think, though, that —and markets are 
pretty confident, it seems to me —that we will get in flation under control .  And I believe we will.  
We’re certainly highly committed to do that . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Grady.   
GRADY TRIMBLE .  Thank you, Mr . Chair .  Grady Trimble with Fox Business .  You ’ve 
reiterated today and the Committee has reiterated its commitment to that 2 percent inflation December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 19 of 23  
 target.  I wonder, is there ever a point where you actually reevaluate that target and maybe 
increase your inflation target if it is stickier than even you think it is?  
CHAIR POWELL .  That ’s just —so , changing our inflation goal is just something we ’re 
not thinking about, and it ’s something we ’re not going to think about .  It’s—we have a 2 percent 
inflation goal, and we ’ll use our tools to get inflation back to 2 percent .  I think this isn ’t the time 
to be thinking about that .  I mean, there may be a longer -run project at some point.  But that is 
not where we are at all .  The Committee —we ’re not considering that .  We ’re not going to 
consider that under any circumstances .  We’ re going to keep our inflation target at 2 percent .  
We’re going to use our tools to get inflation back to 2 percent . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Nicole .   
NICOLE GOODKIND.  Thank you, Chairman Powell .  Nicole Goodkind, CNN 
Business.  As you monitor wage growth and unemployment data, I wonder if you ’re paying close 
attention to a sector or even income level?  Like, how do you factor potential exacerbations of 
inequality into your risk calculations, especially given the K -shaped recovery of 2020?  
CHAIR POWELL .  So the —I would go back to the labor market that we had in 2018, 
’19, ’20.  So , what that looked like was , wage increases for the people at the lowest end of the 
income spectrum were the largest .  The gaps between racial groups and gender groups were at 
their smallest in reco rded history .  That ’s—and all of that because of a tight labor market, a tight 
labor market which had inflation running, you know, just a tick below 2 percent and the 
economy growing right at its potential . 
So that seems like something that would be really good for the economy and for the 
country, if we could get back to that .  And so that ’s what all of us want to do.  We want to get 
back to a long expansion where the labor market can remain strong over an extended period of December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 20 of 23  
 time.  That ’s a really good thing for workers in the economy.  And we ’d love to get back to that .  
That’s what our goal is .  You know, there ’s—in the near term, we have to use our tools to restore 
price stability .  But we , you know, we can’ t—what we have to think about is the medium and 
longer term . 
If you think about it, the country went through a difficult time —I think much more 
difficult than we can think it would happen here .  But it really set up our economy for several 
decades of prosperity .  So price stability is something that really pays dividends for the benefit of 
the economy and the people in it over a very, very long period of time .  And so when it is lost, 
for whatever reason, it has to be restored and as quickly as possible—wh ich is what we’ re doing.  
NICOLE GOODKIND.  In the short  term, are you factoring in these exacerbations or 
potential exacerbations in the economy?  Are you monitoring them?  
CHAIR POWELL .  We do, yes .  We absolutely do.  We look at —it’s our regular practice 
to talk about unemployment rates by different groups, including racial groups and that sort of 
thing.  We do .  We keep our eye on that . 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Nancy. 
NANCY MARSHALL -GENZER.  Hi.  Nancy Marshall -Genzer with Marketplace.  What 
would you do if the economy slows so much that we enter a recession before we see strong 
consistent signs that inflation is slowing—in other words, stagflation?  
CHAIR POWELL .  So I don’ t want to get into too many hypotheticals .  But, you know, 
we’ll—it’s hard to deal with  hypotheticals .  So let me just say that we have to use our tools to 
support maximum employment and price stability .  I’ve made it clear that right now, the labor 
market’ s very, very strong.  You’re  near a 50 -year low where you’ re at or above maximum 
emplo yment , a 50-year low in unemployment, vacancies are very high, wages —nominal wages December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 21 of 23  
 are very high.  So the labor market ’s very, very strong.  Where we’ re missing is on the inflation 
side.  And we ’re missing by a lot on the inflation side .  So that means we need to really focus on 
getting inflation under control, and that ’s what we’ ll do.  I think, as the economy heals, the two 
goals come more into play.  But right now, clearly, the focus has to be on getting inflation down. 
MICHELLE SMITH .  Greg . 
GREG ROBB.  Thank you, Chairman Powell .  Greg Robb from MarketWatch .  You 
spoke a little bit ago.  You said that the U .S. looks —it looks like we have a structural labor 
shortage in the economy.  Could you expand on that , talk a little bit more about that?   And, 
really, are you talking about getting Congress action on increasing, like, legal immigration, 
things like that?  Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL .  So, what I meant by that, with “ structural labor shortage ,” is, if you 
look at where we are now, as I mentioned , there —if you just look at demand for labor, you can 
look at vacancies plus people who are actually working.  And then you can take supply of labor 
by, “A re you in the labor market? ”  “Are you looking for a job or have a job? ”  And you’ re 4—
more than 4 million people short .  We don’ t see— despite very high wages and an incredibly 
tight labor market, we don’ t see participation moving up —which is contrary to what we thought . 
So the upshot of all that is , the labor market is actually —it should —it’s 3½ million 
people , at least , smaller than it should have been based on pre -pandemic .  Just assume population 
and reasonable growth and aging of the population;  our labor force should be 3½ million more 
than it is .  And that —there’re lots of easy ways to get to bigger numbers than that if you go back 
a few more years.  So why is that?   Part of it is just accelerated retirements .  People dropped out 
and aren ’t coming back at a higher rate than expected .  Part of it is that we lost a half a million December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 22 of 23  
 people who would have been work—close to half a million who would have been working died 
from COVID .  And part of it is that migration has been lower . 
We don’ t prescribe—you know, it ’s not our job to prescribe things .  But, you know, I 
think if you ask businesses, you know, pretty much everybody you talk to says there aren’ t 
enough people .  We need more people .  So I tried to identify that in my —in a speech I gave a 
month ago, but I stopped short of telling Congre ss what to do because, you know, they gave us a 
job.  And we need to, you know, do that job.  
MICHELLE SMITH .  Thanks .  Jennifer.  
JENNIFER SCHONBERGER.  Thank you, Chair Powell .  Jennifer Schonberger with 
Yahoo Finance .  You say you expect growth of just ½ percent next year .  Given that you’ ve said 
the process of raising rates and getting inflation back under control will be painful , have you had 
discussions within the Committee and addressed how long and/or how deep of a recession you 
would be willing to ac cept? 
CHAIR POWELL .  No .  I mean, what we do is , we make our forecasts, and we publish 
them quarterly .  And, you know, if you look at those forecasts, those are forecasts for slow 
growth, for a softening labor market, by which I mean, unemployment goes up but not a great deal.  And you see inflation coming down.  You see rates going up a lot .  You see inflation 
coming down.  Those are those forecasts, and that ’s really what they show . 
We’re not —of course, we don’ t talk about, you know, this kind of a recession and that 
kind of a recession.  We just , you know, we make those forecasts .  The staff runs —and you will 
see this if you look at the old Tealbooks —runs alternative simulations of all different kinds at 
every meeting, and we look at those , too.  An d those will explore different things .  But that ’s 
just, you know, upside and downside scenarios .  Of course, that ’s a responsible practice that December 14 , 2022   Chair Powell ’s Press Conference   FINAL  
 
Page 23 of 23  
 we’ve carried on for many decades .  But, no, we don’ t—we haven ’t asked ourselves that 
question.  
MICHELLE SMITH .  We’ ll go to Jean for the last question.   
JEAN YUNG.  Hi .  Jean Yung with Market News.  I wanted to ask about the SEP again.  
If you’ re reaching peak rates around 5 percent in the first half of next year and inflation starts to 
decline materially, that w ould seem to make the real rate gradually more restrictive .  Is that 
something that ’s built into the projections and into models?   Is that something you would want 
to see?  
CHAIR POWELL .  So we do know that .  Of course, that ’s something that we know we ’d 
see.  But, as I mentioned, you know, we wouldn’ t—I wouldn’ t see the Committee cutting rates 
until we ’re confident that inflation is moving down in a sustained way.  That would be my test .  I 
don’t see us as having a really clear and precise understanding of what the neutral rate is and 
what real rates are so that  it would mechanically happen like that .  It would—really , it’ll be a test 
of—for cutting rates, I think, in the event , it’ll be a question of , do we actually feel confident that 
inflation is coming down in a sustained way?  
Thank you very much.  